README.md, before:

# InstaRand Benchmarking
Library benchmarking VRF, dVRF, FlexiRand, and InstaRand.
Artifact submission for CCS 2024.
Contains off-chain benchmarking written in Rust and on-chain benchmarking written in Solidity.
## Rust
#### Rust Benchmarks Overview
- Goldberg VRF on Secp256k1 Curve
- GLOW dVRF on BN254 Curve
- FlexiRand on BN254 Curve
- InstaRand Client using Goldberg VRF on Secp2566k1 Curve
- InstaRand Centralized Server using BLS VRF on BN254 Curve
- InstaRand Decentralized Server using GLOW dVRF on BN254 Curve
#### Rust Version / Package Details Details
- Cargo (Rust) version 1.75.0
- [k256](https://crates.io/crates/k256) version 0.13.3 used for Secp256k1 Curve
- [substrate-bn](https://crates.io/crates/substrate-bn) version 0.6.0 was used for BN254 Curve
- [criterion](https://crates.io/crates/criterion/0.5.1/dependencies) version 0.4.0 was used for benchmarking
  - each benchmark consisted of at least 20 repetitions
  - experiments can be run with `cargo bench`
  - all experiments have R<sup>2</sup> >= 0.999
  - [`cargo bench` CLI Output](./data/rust/cli_benchmark_output.pdf)
  - [Full Report](./data/rust/report.zip)
#### Machine Information
- Model: MacBook Pro 18.3
- Chip: Apple M1 Pro
- Cores: 8 (6 performance and 2 efficiency)
- Memory: 16 GB
- System Firmware Version: 8422.141.2
- OS Loader Version: 8422.141.2
- OS: macOS Ventura 13.5.1
- Additional Information:
  - Wi-Fi and Bluetooth disabled
  - All other processes closed
  - Screen reduced to minimum brightness
  - No external devices connected (mouse, monitor, etc.)
#### Build Instructions
- install [Rust and Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html) minimum version 1.72.1
- open a terminal in [`./off-chain/`](./off-chain/) (or enter directory using `cd off-chain`)
- run `cargo bench`
## Contracts
#### Smart Contracts Overview ([`./on-chain/contracts/`](./on-chain/contracts/))
- [`BLS.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/BLS.sol) and [`DDH.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/DDH.sol) contain implementations for verification of BLS Signatures on BN254 and Goldberg VRF on Secp256k1 respectively.
- They contain the Supra and Chainlink implementations respectively, with any modifications denoted by a `FLAG_TODO` comment which can be easily parsed.
  - `BLS.sol` was taken from the [Supra dVRF Smart contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0xaeef3c744e07b4ceeb7469460f220c697b8fb8bc#code) currently deployed on ethereum mainnet.
  - `DDH.sol` was taken from [Chainlink's Github](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/contracts/src/v0.8/vrf/VRF.sol) rather than the [Chainlink VRF Smart Contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0xf0d54349aDdcf704F77AE15b96510dEA15cb7952#code#L275) that is currently deployed on ethereum mainnet because it compiles with the same solidity compiler versions as `BLS.sol`
  - the main change made in both files is negation of certain checks to allow us to pass on random input. This incurs minimal additional overhead relative to the cost of the verifications.
- [`vrf.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/vrf.sol), [`dvrf.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/dvrf.sol), [`flexirand.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/flexirand.sol), and [`instarand.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/instarand.sol) contain smart contracts which implement their respective protocols in their entirety.
- [`crypto_operations.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/crypto_operations.sol) and [`storage_operations.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/storage_operations.sol) contain code for benchmarking the gas used to execute individual operations such as signature verification and storing data on-chain.
#### Software Details
- Compiled using Solidity Compiler 0.8.19
- Deployed and run on Remix VM (London) to enable using javascript to interact with SC's
- Gas costs should approximate ethereum mainnet
#### Build Instructions
- Open [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/)
- clear default contents of `contracts` and `scripts` folders
- copy contents of [`./on-chain/contracts/`](./on-chain/contracts/) to Remix IDE `./contracts`. Do the same for [`./on-chain/scripts/`](./on-chain/scripts/).
- Set compiler version to `0.8.19` and compile each contract in `./contracts/` other than `DDH.sol` and `BLS.sol` (these will compile automatically as dependencies)
- Set Environment to `Remix EVM (London)` and deploy each SC.
- copy the address of each deployed SC in `./scripts/addresses.json`
- run each script by right-clicking on it and clicking `run`.
#### Gas Measurement
- [`~/transcripts/`](./data/on-chain/transcripts/) contains the raw output from running the experiments
  - Due to the constraints of Remix IDE we ran experiments in 10 batches of 10.
  - We always begin with a single batch of 1 to initialize any on-chain variables. This batch is not counted towards our data as it is more expensive than any other round.
  - [storage_operations](./on-chain/contracts/storage_operations.sol) was only ran twice after the initial batch of 1 since all its operations use constant gas.
- [`results.xlsx`](./data/on-chain/results.xlsx) contains data which has been parsed and made more presentable.
  - The left half of the sheet contains final numbers and the right side contains the average from each of the 10 runs.

Commit message:

added submission zip for convenient download

README.md, after:

# InstaRand Benchmarking
Library benchmarking VRF, dVRF, FlexiRand, and InstaRand.
Artifact submission for CCS 2024.
Contains off-chain benchmarking written in Rust and on-chain benchmarking written in Solidity.
Note [submission.zip](./submission.zip) contains this [README](./README.md) as well as the [`offchain`](./off-chain/), [`on-chain`](./on-chain), and [`data`](./data/) folders so that they can be conveniently downloaded from anonymized github link.
## Rust
#### Rust Benchmarks Overview
- Goldberg VRF on Secp256k1 Curve
- GLOW dVRF on BN254 Curve
- FlexiRand on BN254 Curve
- InstaRand Client using Goldberg VRF on Secp2566k1 Curve
- InstaRand Centralized Server using BLS VRF on BN254 Curve
- InstaRand Decentralized Server using GLOW dVRF on BN254 Curve
#### Rust Version / Package Details Details
- Cargo (Rust) version 1.75.0
- [k256](https://crates.io/crates/k256) version 0.13.3 used for Secp256k1 Curve
- [substrate-bn](https://crates.io/crates/substrate-bn) version 0.6.0 was used for BN254 Curve
- [criterion](https://crates.io/crates/criterion/0.5.1/dependencies) version 0.4.0 was used for benchmarking
  - each benchmark consisted of at least 20 repetitions
  - experiments can be run with `cargo bench`
  - all experiments have R<sup>2</sup> >= 0.999
  - [`cargo bench` CLI Output](./data/rust/cli_benchmark_output.pdf)
  - [Full Report](./data/rust/report.zip)
#### Machine Information
- Model: MacBook Pro 18.3
- Chip: Apple M1 Pro
- Cores: 8 (6 performance and 2 efficiency)
- Memory: 16 GB
- System Firmware Version: 8422.141.2
- OS Loader Version: 8422.141.2
- OS: macOS Ventura 13.5.1
- Additional Information:
  - Wi-Fi and Bluetooth disabled
  - All other processes closed
  - Screen reduced to minimum brightness
  - No external devices connected (mouse, monitor, etc.)
#### Build Instructions
- install [Rust and Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/getting-started/installation.html) minimum version 1.72.1
- open a terminal in [`./off-chain/`](./off-chain/) (or enter directory using `cd off-chain`)
- run `cargo bench`
## Contracts
#### Smart Contracts Overview ([`./on-chain/contracts/`](./on-chain/contracts/))
- [`BLS.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/BLS.sol) and [`DDH.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/DDH.sol) contain implementations for verification of BLS Signatures on BN254 and Goldberg VRF on Secp256k1 respectively.
- They contain the Supra and Chainlink implementations respectively, with any modifications denoted by a `FLAG_TODO` comment which can be easily parsed.
  - `BLS.sol` was taken from the [Supra dVRF Smart contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0xaeef3c744e07b4ceeb7469460f220c697b8fb8bc#code) currently deployed on ethereum mainnet.
  - `DDH.sol` was taken from [Chainlink's Github](https://github.com/smartcontractkit/chainlink/blob/develop/contracts/src/v0.8/vrf/VRF.sol) rather than the [Chainlink VRF Smart Contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0xf0d54349aDdcf704F77AE15b96510dEA15cb7952#code#L275) that is currently deployed on ethereum mainnet because it compiles with the same solidity compiler versions as `BLS.sol`
  - the main change made in both files is negation of certain checks to allow us to pass on random input. This incurs minimal additional overhead relative to the cost of the verifications.
- [`vrf.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/vrf.sol), [`dvrf.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/dvrf.sol), [`flexirand.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/flexirand.sol), and [`instarand.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/instarand.sol) contain smart contracts which implement their respective protocols in their entirety.
- [`crypto_operations.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/crypto_operations.sol) and [`storage_operations.sol`](./on-chain/contracts/storage_operations.sol) contain code for benchmarking the gas used to execute individual operations such as signature verification and storing data on-chain.
#### Software Details
- Compiled using Solidity Compiler 0.8.19
- Deployed and run on Remix VM (London) to enable using javascript to interact with SC's
- Gas costs should approximate ethereum mainnet
#### Build Instructions
- Open [Remix IDE](https://remix.ethereum.org/)
- clear default contents of `contracts` and `scripts` folders
- copy contents of [`./on-chain/contracts/`](./on-chain/contracts/) to Remix IDE `./contracts`. Do the same for [`./on-chain/scripts/`](./on-chain/scripts/).
- Set compiler version to `0.8.19` and compile each contract in `./contracts/` other than `DDH.sol` and `BLS.sol` (these will compile automatically as dependencies)
- Set Environment to `Remix EVM (London)` and deploy each SC.
- copy the address of each deployed SC in `./scripts/addresses.json`
- run each script by right-clicking on it and clicking `run`.
#### Gas Measurement
- [`~/transcripts/`](./data/on-chain/transcripts/) contains the raw output from running the experiments
  - Due to the constraints of Remix IDE we ran experiments in 10 batches of 10.
  - We always begin with a single batch of 1 to initialize any on-chain variables. This batch is not counted towards our data as it is more expensive than any other round.
  - [storage_operations](./on-chain/contracts/storage_operations.sol) was only ran twice after the initial batch of 1 since all its operations use constant gas.
- [`results.xlsx`](./data/on-chain/results.xlsx) contains data which has been parsed and made more presentable.
  - The left half of the sheet contains final numbers and the right side contains the average from each of the 10 runs.
